# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

Answer: In 'console.rb'; lines 6, 15 and 24.

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

Answer: In property.rb line 16 - in save()

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
Answer: When we save properties, that is modifying the database. e.g. lines 13, 22 and 31.

We also modify the database when we delete properties - e.g. line 33.

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

Answer: The id needs to be created by the database itself; it is a unique identifier, that is made sequentially. As programmers, we should not touch database IDs - unlike computers we are unreliable and should defer to their superior abacus technologies.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

Answer: in property.rb, the id is created by the database, and in the save method, specifically line 32, we assign that value to the ruby 'Property' object. When a property is initialized it then has that id assigned to it. (line 9)

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

Answer: we want to avoid situations where an id is defined when there isn't already an id in place - this would mean that a value for an ID has been created outside of the database, and thus could potentially override an already existing record in the database - essentially, the process done fucked up, so we don't want that to happen.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

Answer:
These methods are all defined in property.rb.
Instance method CRUD actions include update() on line 36, and delete() on line 55.
Class method CRUD actions include all() on line 65, find() on line 75, find_by_address() on line 88 and delete_all() on line 1010.,

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

Answer:
The information we are returning from the database here is as an array, even if it is an array of a single block of data. And so, specifically in the save method, we must access it by it's index in the array, which is '[0]'.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
Prepared statements eliminate errors and sql injections from malicious sources. Preparing statements guards our databases from these possible infractions.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
find_by_id takes in an id parameter (an integer); find_by_address takes in an address parameter (a string).

Q11. What are their return values?
They return an array of data, which is then converted into a hash inline with the structure of the property class, as defined in the initialize method. 
